Detectors installed to release fire and smoke control doors in a corridor on a single level may be connected to a common detection zone.
Additional detectors might be required where any special structural features or conditions exist.
The location, identification, correct type, and operation of detectors, manual call points, and other devices shall be confirmed as functional.
When installed on the wall, the minimum height of a visual alarm device shall be 2,4 metres.
Smoke and fire doors held open by door hold-open devices shall close upon an alarm from the detectors installed on either side of the door.
The report shall include the persons and company performing the commissioning tests.
The designer shall have access to documentation necessary to design the FDAS, in accordance with the requirements of this part of ISO 7240.
Some beam receiver units might be unsuitable for exposure to strong light, especially direct sunlight.
Where the FDAS interfaces to another system using voltage-free relay outputs, then self-assessment may be made by the designer and documented accordingly.
Conformity of the installation to the design documentation shall be assessed and certified upon completion of the installation.
Equipment used in the FDAS shall be certified for compliance with the relevant part of ISO 7240 or other International Standards, as appropriate, by a testing laboratory that is accredited by a national body to assess equipment in accordance with the relevant standard.
If the audible alarm signal is intended to arouse sleeping occupants, the minimum A-weighted sound pressure level of the signal shall be 75 decibels at the bedhead, with all doors closed.
The isolator shall be marked Fire Alarm Do Not Switch Off in lettering with a minimum height of 5 millimetres.
The visual indicator shall be located on the outside of the building, be visible from the main approach to the building, and be as near as practicable to the main entrance.
Where an FDAS is connected to a sound system for emergency purposes complying with ISO 7240-19, a disable facility shall be provided to allow the FDAS to be tested without initiating operation of the fire alarm system.
The log shall include the action taken to rectify or remedy the fault.
Although the quality of the material can be ensured by proper standards and quality audits, the overall effectiveness of an installation depends widely on the quality of work, the experience of the designer and installer, and regular service.
Detectors shall be installed between 0,5 metres and 1,5 metres from the apex and spaced longitudinally at a maximum of 10,2 metres between detectors.
Inspect the location of the FDCIE and that the FDAS is in the quiescent condition.
The main power source shall be an AC supply from an electricity supply company.
Failure of any additional equipment shall not affect the correct operation of the FDAS.
Staff training should take place at regular intervals and should include the use of all manual controls.
The installation of a fire detection and alarm system can only be successfully accomplished if the following conditions are fulfilled.
Test that a fault condition occurs upon the failure of the transmission path between the FDAS and other systems.
Where the FDAS is used to initiate automatic fire protection equipment, and manual control is required, fire protection control equipment complying with ISO 7240-28 shall be installed.
A detection zone shall be limited to no more than 2000 square metres of contiguous floor area.
The manual control shall be labelled DOOR RELEASE unless it is integral with the hold-open device.
Joints and terminations associated with vertical riser cables shall be made within the associated fire-isolated duct.
The building owner or occupier shall be responsible for service to and service quality of the FDAS.
Where flow switches or pressure switches associated with fire suppression systems are used to initiate a fire alarm signal at the FDCIE, each shall be indicated as a separate detection zone on the FDCIE.
The evacuation signal shall operate simultaneously throughout the building.
The designer shall prepare a service plan of routine inspections, tests, and preventive maintenance to continuously preserve the function and performance of the FDAS.
Service to the FDAS shall be undertaken by persons having qualifications or experience relevant to the scope of the particular service requirements.
Test the operation of 20 percent of point-type heat detectors using a heat source so that all heat detectors are tested over 5 years.
The operation of the emergency management plan shall be performed by a competent person.
Test the operation of all line-type smoke detectors using neutral density light filters.
Design of the FDAS, including components and usage requirements, shall be undertaken in a systematic process in accordance with a quality system.
Documentation shall include plans of the building.
The maximum voltage drop shall not cause any equipment to be operated at a voltage less than the minimum specified by the equipment manufacturer.
Remote indicators for rooms, cupboards, or similar areas shall be installed adjacent to the door giving access to the detectors.
Where the FDAS is connected to a computer not being a required part of the FDAS, the FDAS may send events to the computer.
Outputs from the FDAS may be delayed to provide time to investigate the cause of a fault or alarm.
Smoke detectors using scattered light or transmitted light shall be installed within the stairwells at each floor level having access to the stairwell.
The design criteria shall include minimization of unwanted alarms.
The maximum area covered by each line-type heat detector shall be in accordance with the detection zone limitation.
Test that a fault condition occurs upon the removal of a detector from a detection zone.
A manual call point complying with ISO 7240-11 shall be installed in a clearly visible and readily accessible location adjacent to each exit from each floor of the building.
Where the manual call point is installed on the outside of the exit door, it may be connected to the detection zone associated with the floor of the building.
If the tests determine that any item fails to comply with the requirements of this part of ISO 7240, it is important that the building owner takes actions to remedy the non-compliance.
The design criteria shall include rapid detection of fire.
For extra-low voltage transmission paths not installed within cable conduit, the outer sheath of a cable shall be coloured red or have permanent red markers of at least 25 millimetres in width spaced at intervals of not more than 2 metres along the cable length.
Operation instructions shall be updated after additions to or modifications of the FDAS.
For ceiling heights between 4 metres and 15 metres, the sensing element shall not be more than 600 millimetres below the ceiling, roof, or apex.
Inspect the documentation to ensure it is available and complete.
For normal applications, a class C aspirating smoke detector shall be used.
Flame detectors shall be spaced to ensure that the risk areas are protected with a minimum of shadowing or blind spots.
Correct information shall be available at the FDCIE when devices are activated.
This part of ISO 7240 specifies the minimum requirements for fire detection and alarm systems using equipment complying with ISO 7240.
The log shall include the time and date of each fault occurrence.
Connectors and distribution boxes shall be suitable for the size of cables used in the FDAS.
Batteries shall be located and installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
Where flame detectors are placed in environments that are likely to lead to the depositing of particles on the lens, appropriate baffles or purging equipment shall be fitted to ensure that the detector's sensitivity range is maintained between service periods.
The commissioning plan should include equipment and system checks and tests to ensure the FDAS is installed and operating correctly.
Vertical risers, lift shafts, and similar openings between storeys shall be protected within the riser at the top.
Inspect battery ventilation and protection against corrosion.
A single aspirating smoke detector shall not cover an area greater than a single detection zone.
Test that the light output level from visual alarm devices is no less than the design requirement.
The distance between beams shall not exceed 14,4 metres.
In the event of loss of the main power source, the standby power source standby time shall comply with the requirements of local regulations.
The designer shall prepare a list of all components used in the FDAS and identify which components are critical to its operation.
Since alarm dependency delays the initiation of an alarm signal, it is important to first try other efforts to eliminate unwanted alarm signals.
For level surfaces, the distance from any point on the level surface to the nearest detector shall not exceed 7,2 metres and the distance between any detector and the nearest detector shall not exceed 10,2 metres.
Documentation shall include a description of the environmental conditions.
The line-type heat detection circuits shall be disposed throughout the area so that there is not more than 7,2 metres between any two adjacent lines and within 3,6 metres of any wall or partition.
Where a concealed space contains electrical lighting or power equipment connected to an electrical supply in excess of extra-low voltage, a detector shall be mounted on the ceiling of the concealed space within 1,5 metres measured horizontally from the equipment.
Test that the standby power source capacity is equal to or greater than the calculated requirement.
This part of ISO 7240 specifies the design, installation, commissioning, and service requirements for a fire detection and alarm system (FDAS), which is primarily intended to provide early detection of fire and notification within one or more specified indoor or outdoor areas for the protection of lives.
This part of ISO 7240 also specifies requirements for an FDAS capable of providing signals to audible warning systems in accordance with ISO 7240-19, to initiate the operation of ancillary technical services, such as fixed fire extinguishing systems, and to other precautions and actions.
The installation shall comply with the design plan.
The installation of the FDAS shall be undertaken by persons having qualifications or experience relevant to the scope of the particular installation requirements.
Inspect alarm devices for clearance, visibility, and marking.
Where more than two visual alarm devices are simultaneously visible by building occupants, they shall flash in synchronization.
Test the operation of 50 percent of point-type smoke detectors using smoke or suitable aerosols so that all smoke detectors are tested over 2 years.
The alarm system shall include visual alarm devices complying with ISO 7240-23 installed where the ambient noise exceeds 95 decibels.
A single fault in one alarm zone shall not affect the operation of visual alarm devices in other zones.
Where the installer encounters problems with the design, the designer shall review the design and make any required changes.
The designer shall prepare an emergency management plan incorporating the type of emergencies considered and an evacuation plan for the relevant types of emergency.
The line-type heat detector sensing elements shall be installed so that they are not subject to mechanical damage.
Certification of compatibility of equipment used in the FDAS shall be included in the design documentation for the FDAS.
Where the FDAS is integrated with an intrusion alarm system, the requirements of this part of ISO 7240 shall take precedence.
The documentation shall be revised to include the alterations.
Detector locations and spacing shall include evaluation of room geometry and risk.
A commissioning plan shall comply with the requirements in this part of ISO 7240 and any amendments incorporated as part of the design plan.
Test that disabling a detector in a detection zone causes the FDCIE to enter the disabled condition.
Mains wiring for the FDAS shall be connected to a separate isolator at the electrical switchboard.
Access for maintenance of detectors installed within concealed spaces shall be provided.
The design shall consider any national regulations that place other limitations on the design.
The design of the alterations shall include a re-calculation of power supply requirements.
A common remote indicator for multiple detectors within a single room or sole occupancy unit may be used.
The FDAS shall be certified for compliance with this part of ISO 7240 by an independent party acceptable to the regulatory authority.
Where a detector indicator is not visible from a normally occupied area, remote indicators shall be used to indicate a detector in alarm.
Detectors shall be installed near the apex of a sloping ceiling, roof, or surface to avoid dead air pockets.
Detectors may be omitted from the underside of open grid portions of the ceiling which have not less than two-thirds of the total ceiling area open to the free flow of air and have detectors installed on the ceiling above the open grid.
The design may include the use of radio links for the connection of devices to the FDAS.
The alarm system shall be a sound system for emergency purposes in accordance with ISO 7240-19, initiated by the FDAS.
A record shall be maintained of the operation of the FDAS, any faults, and routine tests.
Buildings with a return-air-handling system serving more than one enclosure shall have smoke detectors installed adjacent to the return air inlet.
The alarm signals shall be audible in all places specified in ISO 7240-19.
Where the fire detection system interfaces to another system using a high-level link, the designer shall prepare a suitable test plan to ensure reliable interfacing, including the testing of failure and fault modes.
Each item of equipment shall be installed within an environment for which it has been certified.
A clear space of at least 100 millimetres radius, to a depth of 600 millimetres, shall be maintained from the detector.
Detection zones may be subdivided, such that signals from individual devices, or groups of devices, may also be indicated at the FDCIE, thus providing more detailed information on the location of an event.
Detectors shall be installed in all concealed spaces.
Use of such smoke detectors shall comply with the applicable national standards.
The installation of each conductor shall be permanently coloured so that each conductor is readily identifiable at each termination.
The FDCIE shall be installed such that indications of required functions are available to the operator.
Visual alarm devices shall be installed on the ceiling or wall, in sufficient numbers such that the visual signal is visible from normally accessible locations throughout the required area.
Commissioning of the FDAS shall be undertaken by a suitable commissioner.
Wiring shall provide or be provided with sufficient mechanical strength to maintain the integrity of the transmission path within the expected environment.
The opening to the sensing element for ceiling-mounted point-type detectors shall be not less than 25 millimetres and normally not more than 300 millimetres below the ceiling, roof, or apex.
Access to the FDAS shall be in accordance with the emergency management plan.
All ancillary functions shall function correctly.
Where there is a risk that smoke may not rise to the ceiling or roof, additional detection may be provided at intermediate heights.
The protection of property is outside the scope of this part of ISO 7240.
The maximum distance from any wall to the nearest beam shall not exceed 7,2 metres.
Detectors shall be installed so that the on or off condition of the alarm indicator is discernible from a trafficable area.
The log shall include the dates and times of usage of the FDAS.
The log shall include details of tests and routine checks carried out.
Other communication methods such as optical fibres are permitted provided that the integrity of the installation is equivalent to the requirements of this part of ISO 7240.
A single detection zone shall not intersect more than one alarm zone.
Air-handling plant supplying air to more than one storey within the building shall have a smoke detector installed as close as practicable to the plant to detect smoke downstream from the supply air fan.
Inspection, testing, and preventive maintenance of the FDAS shall be carried out after notifying the building occupier.
Visual alarm devices shall be installed where hearing protection is normally used by building occupants.
Skilled personnel carry out the work.
Alterations to existing installations shall be designed, installed, and commissioned in accordance with the requirements of this part of ISO 7240.
Detectors installed in air-handling systems shall be provided with permanent indelible labels stating detection zone designation, affixed adjacent to the detectors.
Batteries shall be provided with adequate ventilation and protected against corrosion and the dangers resulting from any gases emitted by the batteries.
Any changes to the design or installation plan shall be approved by the owner and the relevant authority.
Operational instructions shall be provided in the form best suited to the environment in which they are used.
Where the distance from the underside of the intermediate surface to the ceiling is less than 800 millimetres, the underside of the intermediate surface may be considered as the ceiling and does not require detectors above the intermediate surface.
Test the operation of line-type heat detectors using a heat source.
Where automatic detection is not required, and as permitted by national regulations, a system of manual call points may be installed.
Actions to be taken in the event of a delay to an output shall be included in the emergency management plan.
Smoke detection equipment for ducts shall be used for monitoring return-air systems.
The designer shall ensure that equipment complying with ISO 7240 used in the FDAS has been independently assessed as compatible with the FDCIE, in accordance with ISO 7240-13.
Heat detectors shall not be installed closer than 600 millimetres to any air supply opening.
The design criteria shall satisfy national fire safety objectives and include the rate of fire growth.
Lower rows of heat detectors shall be no more than 7,2 metres apart, measured horizontally from adjacent rows, the outside wall, or partition.
Inspect detectors for any condition that is likely to adversely affect their operation, such as excessive deposition of dust or coating of paint.
Fire detection and alarm systems — Part 14: design, installation, commissioning and service of fire detection and fire alarm systems in and around buildings.
The report shall include the dates of commissioning tests.
The area shall be free of ignition sources and stored combustible materials.
The emergency management plan shall include actions to be taken after an unwanted alarm.
Non-fire-isolated accessible service tunnels that provide communication between buildings or sections thereof shall have detectors installed.
A single fault in the transmission paths between parts of FDCIE shall not prevent an alarm from other parts of FDCIE.
Detection is not required when light fittings are not rated above 100 watts, power equipment with moving parts is not rated above 100 watts, or other power equipment is not rated above 500 watts.
The transmission paths between the FDAS and other systems shall be supervised for faults in accordance with ISO 7240-2.
Installation of the FDAS shall be undertaken by a suitable installer.
Where the requirements of ISO 7240-13 do not directly apply, then it may be used as a guide to prepare a suitable compatibility assessment procedure.
Materials are of a suitable quality.
Manual call points shall be installed at a height of 1,4 metres from the trafficable area, with a clear space of 0,6 metres around the front face of the manual call point.
The FDAS response may be delayed by the use of dependency on more than one alarm signal, as specified in ISO 7240-2.
Test the FDAS and record the results of the tests.
The emergency management plan shall include steps to be taken where part of the FDAS is disconnected or disabled.
Operation of the FDAS shall not obstruct the evacuation of the building.
Test the operation of the emergency management plan at intervals not exceeding 12 months.
Inspect the FDAS at intervals not exceeding 6 months and record the results.
The wiring shall be dedicated to the FDAS, except that the wiring may be shared with systems complying with other parts of ISO 7240.
Where occupants, such as patients in hospital wards, must not be subject to possible stress imposed by loud noises, the sound pressure level and message content shall be arranged to provide warning for the staff and minimize patient trauma.
Lower rows of smoke detectors shall be no more than 10,2 metres apart, measured horizontally from adjacent rows, the outside wall, or partition.
The emergency management plan shall include steps to be taken in the event of failure of all or part of the FDAS.
The FDAS shall operate one type-B red-coloured visual indicator complying with ISO 7240-23 to indicate a fire alarm condition.
Documentation shall include the use of the building where known.
Where the design of the FDAS allows the use of additional equipment connected to the FDCIE, the designer shall ensure that the equipment has been assessed as compatible with the FDCIE, in accordance with ISO 7240-13.
The design of the alterations shall include an assessment of the compatibility of proposed equipment with existing equipment.
The operation of the FDAS shall not be reliant on the additional equipment.
For level surfaces, excluding corridors, the distance from any point on the level surface to the nearest heat detector shall not exceed 5,1 metres and the distance between any detector and the nearest detector shall not exceed 7,2 metres.
Where the ceiling is segmented by beams, joists, or ducts and the vertical depth of such members is greater than 300 millimetres, spacing between detectors shall be reduced by 30 percent in the direction perpendicular to the direction of segmentation.
Where a smoke and heat control system is required in the building, the FDAS shall be connected and transfer alarm condition signals to initiate operation of the smoke and heat control system.
A report shall be prepared in accordance with the commissioning plan.
Any cupboard that has a capacity exceeding 3 cubic metres shall have detectors installed.
The transmission path between the FDCIE shall be supervised for faults.
Battery cabinets shall be accessible by persons having specific responsibility for safety and who are competent and authorized to operate the FDCIE.
The distance from the nearest row of detectors to any wall or partition shall not exceed 5,1 metres or be less than 500 millimetres.
The audible alarm devices shall be connected to a supervised output at the FDCIE.
Smoke detectors or CO fire detectors shall be installed on both sides of a fire control or smoke control door, in line with the centre of the door opening.
Where the detector response settings can be varied, these settings shall be set within the limits specified in the relevant equipment standards.
Audible warning shall be provided to alert all building occupants to a fire alarm condition.
Inspect manual call points for clearance and ease of access.
A document shall be signed by a responsible person describing the field of responsibility in such detail that undefined areas and areas overlapping with other responsibilities are avoided.
Smoke detectors using scattered light or transmitted light shall be installed in all sleeping areas.
The design of the FDAS shall be undertaken by persons having professional qualifications or experience relevant to the scope of the particular design requirements.
For areas with high airflow above 4 metres per second, a class A aspirating smoke detector shall be used for sampling at the air return vents.
The FDCIE shall comply with ISO 7240-2.
The log shall include details of the fault found and the circumstances of its identification.
Heat detectors shall be installed between 0,5 metres and 1,5 metres from the apex and spaced longitudinally at a maximum of 7,2 metres between detectors.
Access to the controls and indicators shall not be obstructed.
The wiring of the FDCIE shall be separate from lighting and other power circuits.
Wiring conductors shall be stranded and insulated.
Confirm that all required visual and audible indications and outputs activate at the FDCIE.
The alarm system shall use audible alarm devices complying with ISO 7240-3.
The building shall be divided into detection zones so that the origin of the alarm can be quickly determined from the indications at the FDCIE and on the detectors.
Where the FDAS is integrated with a building automation system, the FDAS may send events to the building automation system.
The commissioning plan shall be approved by the owner and the relevant authority.
Flame detectors shall be located so that the detector's field of view is not blocked by structural members of buildings or other objects.
Ducts that are used for exhausting cooking fumes, flammable vapours, lint material, and the like shall have at least one detector at the furthest practicable downstream point of the duct.
The FDAS includes automatic detection of a fire and manual initiation of a fire alarm, with audible and visual warning to people within the detection area.
Operating instructions shall be located in or adjacent to the FDCIE.
A FDCIE is fire detection control and indicating equipment.
Circuits controlling ancillary devices shall be either electrically isolated, fuse protected, or current-limited to prevent a fault on the transmission path from inhibiting the operation of other FDCIE functions.