Fire detection and alarm systems —
Panardt s1e4r:vice of fire detection and fire
alarm systems in and around buildings
Systèmes de détection et d’alarme d’incendie —
Partie 14: Conception, installation, prise en charge et entretien des
systèmes de détection d’incendie et d’alarme d’incendie à l’intérieur et
Copyright International Organization for Standardization
Provided by IHS under license with ISO Licensee=University of Alberta/5966844001, User=sharabiani, shahramfs
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST ©
All rights reserved. Unless otherwise specified, no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized otherwise in any form
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, or posting on the internet or an intranet, without prior
written permission. Permission can be requested from either ISO at the address below or ISO’s member body in the country of
Case postale 56 • CH-1211 Geneva 20
E-mail copyright@iso.org
Web www.iso.org
No reprodu i ct i ion or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST © ISO 2013 – All rights reserved
3 Terms, definitions, and abbreviated terms 1
6.3 Documentation required for the design ............................................................................................................................5
6.4 Fire detection and alarm system design ...........................................................................................................................5
6.6 Fire detector selection, sensitivity, and response .....................................................................................................9
6.9 Manual alarm condition initiation ......................................................................................................................................27
6.11 Fire detection control and indicating equipment ..................................................................................................29
6.14 Smoke and heat control ................................................................................................................................................................32
No reproduction or network©ing pIeSrmOit te2d0 w1ith3ou t– lic Aenlsle rfroimg hIHtSs reserved Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST iii
10.3 Routine tests and regular controls ......................................................................................................................................39
13.1 Fire and intrusion systems ........................................................................................................................................................43
13.2 Fire and building automation systems ............................................................................................................................43
13.3 Connection to computer not being a required part..............................................................................................43
14 Alterations to existing installations 44
Annex A Power source calculations 45
No reprodu i ct v ion or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST © ISO 2013 – All rights reserved
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards
bodies (ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out
through ISO technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical
committee has been established has the right to be represented on that committee. International
organizations, governmental and non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work.
ISO collaborates closely with the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of
The procedures used to develop this document and those intended for its further maintenance are
described in the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1. In particular the different approval criteria needed for the
different types of ISO documents should be noted. This document was drafted in accordance with the
editorial rules of the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2. www.iso.org/directives
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of
patent rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights. Details of
any patent rights identified during the development of the document will be in the Introduction and/or
on the ISO list of patent declarations received. www.iso.org/patents
Any trade name used in this document is information given for the convenience of users and does not
constitute an endorsement. Equipment for fire protection and fire fighting
Fire detection and alarm systems
The committee responsible for this document is ISO/TC 21, ,
This first edition cancels and replaces ISO/TR 7240-14:2003. Fire detection and alarm systems
ISO 7P2a4rt0 1 c:o Gnesnisetrsa lo af nthde d feoflinloitwioinnsg parts, under the general title :
— Part 2: Control and indicating equipment
— Part 3: Audible alarm devices
— Part 4: Power supply equipment
— Part 5: Point-type heat detectors
— Part 6: Carbon monoxide fire detectors using electro-chemical cells
— Part 7: Point-type smoke detectors using scattered light, transmitted light or ionization
— Part 8: Carbon monoxide fire detectors using an electro-chemical cell in combination with a heat sensor
— Part 9: Test fires for fire detectors
— Part 10: Point-type flame detector s[Technical Specification]
— Part 11: Manual call points
— Part 12: Line type smoke detectors using a transmitted light beam
— Part 13: Compatibility assessment of system components
— Part 14: Design, installation, commissioning and service of fire detection and fire alarm systems in and
Part 15: Point type fire detectors using scattered light, transmitted light or ionization sensors in
combination with a heat sensor
Part 16: Sound system control and indicating equipment
No reproduction or network©ing pIeSrmOit te2d0 w1ith3ou t– lic Aenlsle rfroimg hIHtSs reserved Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST v
Part 17: Short-circuit isolators
— Part 18: Input/output devices
— Part 19: Design, installation, commissioning and service of sound systems for emergency purposes
— Part 20: Aspirating smoke detectors
— Part 22: Smoke-detection equipment for ducts
— Part 23: Visual alarm devices
— Part 24: Sound-system loudspeakers
— Part 25: Components using radio transmission paths
— Part 27: Point-type fire detectors using a scattered-light, transmitted-light or optical or ionization
smoke sensors, an electrochemical-cell carbon-monoxide sensor and a heat sensor
Part 28: Fire protection control equipment
The Pfoalrlot w29in: Vg ipdaeort f iirse u dnedteerc tporresparation:
No reprodu v ctio i n or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST © ISO 2013 – All rights reserved
The installation of a fire detection and alarm system can only be successfully accomplished if the
following conditions are fulfilled:
— materials are of a suitable quality;
— special knowledge in the field of fire detection and fire alarm;
— skilled personnel to carry out the work.
Although the quality of the material can be ensured by proper standards and quality audits, the overall
effectiveness of an installation depends widely on the quality of work, the experience of the designer
and installer, and regular service.
This part of ISO 7240 has been prepared by ISO/TC 21/SC 3. A number of existing national codes and
standards were reviewed during the preparation of this edition of this part of ISO 7240. Although there
are minor differences in, for example, detector spacing requirements, each code or standard has the
same objective of early fire detection. This part of ISO 7240 specifies the minimum requirements for fire
detection and alarm systems using equipment complying with ISO 7240.
No reproduction or network©ing pIeSrmOit te2d0 w1ith3ou t– lic Aenlsle rfroimg hIHtSs reserved Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST vii
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST
Design, installation, commissioning and service of fire
Pdaertte 1ct4i:on and fire alarm systems in and around buildings
This part of ISO 7240 specifies the design, installation, commissioning, and service requirements for
a fire detection and alarm system (FDAS) (see ISO 7240-1, Figure 1), which is primarily intended to
provide early detection of fire and notification within one or more specified indoor or outdoor areas for
the protection of lives. The FDAS includes automatic detection of a fire and manual initiation of a fire
alarm, with audible and visual warning to people within the detection area.
This part of ISO 7240 also specifies requirements for FDAS capable of providing signals to audible
warning systems in accordance with ISO 7240-19, to initiate the operation of ancillary technical services,
such as fixed fire extinguishing systems, and to other precautions and actions.
The protection of property is outside the scope of this part of ISO 7240. However, the requirements
specified herein may be used as recommendations for property protection.
The following documents, in whole or in part, are normatively referenced in this document and are
indispensable for its application. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For undated
references, the latestF eirdei tdioetne cotfi tohne a rnedfe arleanrcme dsy dsotecmums ent (including any amendments) applies.
ISO 7240 (Aacllo puastritcss) ,— Audible emergency evacuation signal
ISO 8201, Smoke and heat control systems
ISO 21927 (all Tpeasrttss )fo, r electric cables under fire conditions — Circuit integrity — Part 23: Procedures and
requirements — Electric data cables
Tests for electric cables under fire conditions — Circuit integrity — Part 25: Procedures and
requirements — Optical fibre cables
Electrical installations of buildings
IEC 60364, Electroacoustics — Sound level meters — Part 1: Specifications
3 Terms, definitions, and abbreviated terms
For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions given in ISO 7240-1 and the following apply.
No reproduction or network©ing pIeSrmOit te2d0 w1ith3ou t– lic Aenlsle rfroimg hIHtSs reserved Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST
DEPRECATED: emergency loudspeaker zone
geographic subdivision of the premises in which one or more alarm devices are installed and for which
a3 .c1o.2mmon zonal alarm indication is provided
area, inside and/or outside a building or structure, where the FDAS meets the requirements of this
N3.o1t.e3 1 to entry: Certain parts of an area can be excluded (see 6.7.3).
a3d.1ja.4cent to, and mutually accessible
l3o.c1a.5tion where access is gained to the building in an emergency
geographic subdivision of the premises in which one or more points are installed and for which a
c3o.1m.6mon zonal detection indication is provided
space defined by boundary elements
Note 1 to entry: Typical enclosures are walls, floors, and ceilings of buildings and do not refer to cabinets used to
p3a.1t.h8 of escape from any part of a building to a final exit
a3n.1y. 9voltage which cannot exceed AC 50 V or DC 120 V
reference volume delimited by construction elements for which fire resistance has been chosen according
to the plausible fire that could break out within this volume or penetrate into it
s3u.1r.f1a1ce, roof, or ceiling with a gradient less than or equal to 1 in 8
a3g.1e.n1c2y or organization that receives FDAS signals
functional condition characterized by the absence of the alarm, fault warning and disabled and test conditions
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS Not for Resale, 11/29/2013 01:03:00 MST © ISO 2013 – All rights reserved
surface, roof, or ceiling with a gradient greater than 1 in 8
N3.o1t.e1 14 to entry: A sloping surface may not be flat and includes barrel-vaulted ceilings.
room or other part of a building for occupation by one or joint owners, lessees, tenants, or other occupiers
to the exclusion of any other owner, lessee, tenant, or other occupiers
FDAS fire detection and alarm system
FACIE fire alarm control and indicating equipment
FDCIE fire detection control and indicating equipment
Components used as part of the FDAS shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with a
The equipment manufacturer shall make available to the FDAS designer information about the
manufacturer’s quality assurance system to satisfy the designer that the components selected for the
FDAS are suitable for the application.
Where available, components of the FDAS shall comply with equipment specified in ISO 7240.
If International Standards do not exist, then the equipment shall comply with standards permitted by
Equipment used in the FDAS shall be certified for compliance with the relevant part of ISO 7240
or other International Standards, as appropriate, by a testing laboratory that is accredited by a national
body to assess equipment in accordance with the relevant standard. Where assessment has not been
made by an independent party, the designer shall identify the components and describe why assessment
has not been undertaken.
Each item of equipment shall be installed within an environment for which it has been certified.
Additional requirements may apply in special cases, e.g.:
Additional equipment (e.g. remote terminals or graphic displays) may be included in the design
o4f.,4 o.2r connected to the FDAS.
4.4.3 The operation of the FDAS shall not be reliant on the additional equipment.
Failure of any additional equipment shall not affect the correct operation of the FDAS.
Installation material (e.g. cable clamps, centenary cables, and cable trays) shall be of a suitable
r4a.5ti.n2g , size, and strength to meet the design load requirements.
Connectors and distribution boxes shall be suitable for the size of cables used in the FDAS.
The designer shall ensure that equipment complying with ISO 7240 used in the FDAS has been
i5n.1de.2p endently assessed as compatible with the FDCIE, in accordance with ISO 7240-13.
Where the design of the FDAS allows the use of additional equipment connected to the FDCIE
(e.g. remote terminals or graphic displays), the designer shall ensure that the equipment has been
a5s.1se.3s sed as compatible with the FDCIE, in accordance with ISO 7240-13.
Where the requirements of ISO 7240-13 do not directly apply, then it may be used as a guide to
prepare a suitable compatibility assessment procedure.
The designer shall prepare a list of all components used in the FDAS and identify which components
Certification of compatibility of equipment used in the FDAS shall be included in the design
d5o.3c.u2m entation for the FDAS.
Where assessment has not been made by an independent party, the designer shall identify the
c5o.3m.3p onents and describe why assessment has not been undertaken.
Where the FDAS interfaces to another system (e.g. building-management system) using voltage-
f5r.e3e.4 r elay outputs, then self-assessment may be made by the designer and documented accordingly.
Where the fire detection system interfaces to another system (e.g. fire alarm system) using a
high-level link (e.g. serial data communication), the designer shall prepare a suitable test plan to ensure
reliable interfacing, including the testing of failure and fault modes. This may be done in conjunction
with the equipment manufacturer.
Design of the FDAS, including components and usage requirements, shall be undertaken in a systematic
process in accordance with a quality system. A document shall be signed by a responsible person
describing the field of responsibility in such detail that undefined areas and areas overlapping with
other responsibilities are avoided.
The design of the FDAS shall be undertaken by persons having professional qualifications or experience
relevant to the scope of the particular design requirements. Experience may include
— an engineer with proven experience in the field of fire detection and alarm technology,
— an experienced consulting company, or
— an experienced FDAS designer.
NOTE National regulations might exist for the registration and recognition of individuals with the requisite
qualifications and experience. The recognition might form part of a recognized competency framework.
6.3 Documentation required for the design
The designer shall have access to documentation necessary to design the FDAS, in accordance
with the requirements of this part of ISO 7240. Documentation shall include the following:
— plans of the building;
— use of the building (where known);
— occupancy of the building (where known);
— description of the hazard, including proposed use of detection zones and alarm zones;
— description of the environmental conditions, such as
— electromagnetic influences (e.g. areas subject to severe thunderstorms);
— description of the environment where the equipment is installed (e.g. occupancy of the building,
— description of the infrastructure of the environment (e.g. traffic conditions, communications,
6.3.2e lectricity supply, fire brigade access, water supply, etc.).
The designer shall state any assumptions made and provide justifications for solutions selected.
6.4 Fire detection and alarm system design
An FDAS shall be designed in accordance with requirements of this part of ISO 7240. The design
criteria shall satisfy national fire safety objectives and include
— rate of fire growth,
— rapid detection of fire,
— timely evacuation of people (including the use of alarm zones, phased evacuation, or other evacuation
— minimization of unwanted alarms.
NOTE Where national fire safety objectives or regulations do not exist, it is important that the designer
6ap.4p.l2ie s fire safety engineering principles and a risk-based approach to the design.
The design may exclude from the area of coverage defined areas rarely or never occupied by
Where complete fire detection coverage (with excluded areas identified in 6.4.2) is not required,
and as permitted by national regulations, the following areas may be included within the scope of the
— one or more fire compartment(s);
— part of a fire compartment;
NOTE 1 Escape route coverage may not detect a fire at the source of the fire.
N6.O4T.4E 2 Detectors are typically mounted within or adjacent to the equipment cabinet.
Where automatic detection is not required, and as permitted by national regulations, a system
o6f. 4m.5a nual call points may be installed (see 6.9).
Where the design of the FDAS includes the use of optional functions specified in the relevant
equipment standards, the use of the option and the reason shall be included in the design documentation.
NOTE National regulations might require the use of some optional functions or might prohibit the use of
The design shall consider any national regulations that place other limitations on the design, such as
a) the size of detection zones and alarm zones;
b) the maximum number of points installed in a detection zone;
c) limitations of circuits including automatic and manual initiating devices;
d) interface requirements to a sound system for emergency purposes;
e) special requirements for circuits having both detectors and alarm devices;
f) special requirements for the combination of initiating and alarm circuits;
g) requirements for fire alarm and fault warning transmission systems;
h) use of installation material, such as shielded cable, conduits, etc;
i) installations in explosive atmospheres.
The building shall be divided into detection zones so that the origin of the alarm can be quickly
determined from the indications at the FDCIE and on the detectors.
A detection zone shall be limited to no more than 2 000 m of contiguous floor area or 2 000 m
of non-contiguous floor area with no entrances to adjacent areas being separated by more than 10 m
and visible from each other. The longest dimension shall not exceed 100 m and shall be confined to one
storey. Areas with no access from inside the building shall be displayed as separate detection zones
from those having internal access. For an example of detection zone allocation, see Figure 1.
remote indicator (required only when doors kept locked)
remote indicator required when access is restricted
Figure 1 — Example detection zone allocation for contiguous and non-contiguous areas
A mezzanine level, open to and accessible from the floor with which it is associated, may be
t6r.e5a.2te.3d as part of the detection zone for that floor.
Detectors protecting concealed spaces not exceeding 500 m may be connected to the detection
z6o.5n.e2 o.4n the same floor, provided that the total number of detectors does not exceed 40.
Detection zones may be subdivided, such that signals from individual devices, or groups of
devices, may also be indicated at the FDCIE, thus providing more detailed information on the location of
a6n.5 e.2ve.5n t, in addition to the indication of the affected detection zone.
Detectors displayed individually shall not be identified as separate detection zones unless
r6e.5pr.2e.s6e nting the only detector within an enclosure.
A single detection zone shall not intersect more than one alarm zone.
6.6 Fire detector selection, sensitivity, and response
The type and sensitivity of detectors shall be selected to meet the design objectives for the FDAS,
including the fire risk, proposed mounting height, area of coverage, and environmental conditions inside
NOTE In situations where the use of smoke detectors might result in unwanted alarms, other approaches can
be considered, for example:
a) relocation of the detector;
b) use of other types of detectors, including multisensor detectors. The use of heat detectors to replace required
smoke detectors is not recommended but might be required in some environments;
c6). 6.2u se of dependency on more than one alarm signal.
Where the relevant part of ISO 7240 allows more than one sensitivity class or where a
manufacturer has equipment that allows sensitivity settings, the sensitivity for detectors shall be
s6p.6e.c3if ied for each detector installed in the building.
The FDAS response may be delayed by the use of dependency on more than one alarm signal, as
specified in ISO 7240-2. Where used, the following equipment shall not be configured to use the function:
b) FDCIE connected to other FDCIE;
c) detectors installed in hazardous areas;
e) line-type smoke detectors using a transmitted optical beam, where a beam-interrupt fault overrides
f) detection zones using static response heat detectors;
g) detection verification algorithms that will cause a subsequent delay in the detector alarm response
h) detectors that may take more than 60 s to become functional after a reset.
NOTE Since alarm dependency delays the initiation of an alarm signal, it is important to first try other efforts
to eliminate unwanted alarm signals.
Detector locations and spacing shall include evaluation of room geometry and risk, such as
6.7.2 Locations requiring fire detectors
The following considerations shall apply in determining the location of detectors to
a) Smoke detectors using scattered light or transmitted light (refer to ISO 7240-7, ISO 7240-15, and
ISO 7240-27), or CO fire detectors and heat sensors (refer to ISO 7240-8 and ISO 7240-27) shall be
installed in all sleeping areas.
b) Smoke detectors using scattered light or transmitted light shall be installed in all exits, passageways,
corridors, hallways, or other similar areas that are part of a path of travel to an exit.
c) Where an area is divided into sections by walls, partitions, or storage racks, reaching within 300 mm
of the ceiling (or the soffits of the joists where there is no ceiling), each section shall be treated as a
room and shall include detectors.
d) A clear space of at least 100 mm radius, to a depth of 600 mm, shall be maintained from the detector
e) Detector alarm indicators shall be visible from the path of normal entry to the area.
f) Detectors shall be installed so that the “on” or “off” condition of the alarm indicator shall be
discernible from a trafficable area.
N6.O7T.2E. 1.2 Additional detectors might be required where any special structural features or conditions exist.
Where detectors incorporating more than one sensor are installed and the detector is
adjusted for use with one sensor, installation requirements for the operational sensor shall apply.
Non-fire-isolated accessible service tunnels that provide communication between buildings or sections
thereof shall have detectors installed (see also 6.7.2.8).
Smoke detection equipment for ducts (refer to ISO 7240-22) shall be used for monitoring
return-air sWysittehmin — air-handling systems, detectors shall be provided in the following locations:
a) Buildings with a return-air-handling system serving more than one enclosure,
not provided with smoke detection within the occupied space, shall have smoke detectors installed
adjacent to the return/relief/economy air inlet or use smoke detection equipment for ducts to
sample air from the common return air inlets.
NOTE 1 The effect of dilution might prevent operation of a common return-air detector if smoke is only
entering the duct from a single return air grill.
NOTE 2 In areas where the air handling systems result in high (e.g. > 1 m/s) airflows within the enclosure
(such as computer rooms and telecommunications facilities), a detector with a high sensitivity might be
reuqpupilrye-da itro d duecttesc —t smoke which may not be detected by ceiling-mounted detectors.
b) s Air-handling plant supplying air to more than one storey within the building shall
have a smoke detector installed as close as practicable to the plant to detect smoke downstream
from the supply air fan.
NOTE Shutting down the air-handling equipment upon the operation of any detector associated with the
aexirh-haaunsdt ldiuncgt ssy —stems within the building will help prevent the spread of smoke throughout the building.
c) Ducts that are used for exhausting cooking fumes, flammable vapours, lint material,
and the like shall have at least one detector at the furthest practicable downstream point of the duct.
NOTE Detectors for this application need to be carefully selected to suit the environment so that
6.7.2u.n3w.3a nted alarms are minimized. A fully sealed heat detector would normally be used.
Each detector mounted within an air-handling system shall be indicated as a separate
d6e.7t.e2c.t3io.4n zone at the FDCIE.
Detectors installed in air-handling systems shall be provided with permanent indelible
l6a.b7.e2ls.3, s.5ta ting detection zone designation, affixed adjacent to the detectors.
Integral alarm indicators on smoke detectors located in air-handling systems shall be
clearly visible. Where this condition cannot be met, remote indicators shall be installed and labelled
6.7.2.4.1.2 Detectors shall be installed in all concealed spaces. Exemptions are provided in 6.7.3.
Access for maintenance of detectors installed within concealed spaces shall be provided.
Where personnel entry to the concealed space is required, the access dimensions shall be not less than
Where a concealed space contains electrical lighting or power equipment that is fully
within the concealed space and is connected to an electrical supply in excess of extra-low voltage, a
detector shall be mounted on the ceiling of the concealed space within 1,5 m measured horizontally
from the equipment. Where the mounting surface is a sloping surface, the detector shall be mounted on
Detection is not required when light fittings are not rated above 100 W, power equipment
with moving parts is not rated above 100 W, or other power equipment is not rated above 500 W.
NOTE 1 For the purpose of this part of ISO 7240, electrical wiring and any enclosures of light fittings not
deemed combustible, which protrude into a concealed space, are not regarded as electrical equipment.
NOTE 2 The detector used in the protection of the electrical equipment does not necessarily constitute
protection of the concealed space.
6.7.2.4.3 Remote indicators for fire detectors
Where a detector indicator is not visible from a normally occupied area, remote indicators
s6h.7a.l2l .b4e.3 u.s2e d to indicate a detector in alarm (see 6.7.2.4.3.6 for exceptions).
Remote indicators for rooms, cupboards, or similar areas shall be installed adjacent to
t6h.7e. 2do.4o.r3 .g3iv ing access to the detector(s).
Remote indicators for concealed spaces shall be installed in an accessible area as close as
Where a detector is mounted under removable flooring such as in a computer room and
the detector location is not indicated at the FDCIE, a label shall be affixed to the ceiling or ceiling grid
i6m.7m.2e.4d.i3at.5el y above the detector indicating the location of the detector below.
A common remote indicator for multiple detectors, or multiple sampling holes of a single
a6s.7p.i2r.a4t.i3n.g6 d etector, within a single room or sole occupancy unit may be used.
Remote indicators are not required where
a) the detector location is indicated at the FDCIE, or
b) the concealed space is accessible and
1) has a height exceeding 2 m and is trafficable by personnel, or
2) is beneath removable flooring (such as computer flooring).
Any cupboard that has a capacity exceeding 3 m shall have detectors installed. Cupboards
6di.7v.i2d.e5d.2 b y partitions or shelves into separate areas of less than 3 m 3 capacity do not require detectors.
Cupboards containing electrical or electronic equipment having voltages greater than extra-
low voltage shall be protected internally if in excess of 1 m [the requirements of 6.7.2.1.1 e) need not apply].
NOTE For electrical cubicles not requiring protection, see 6.7.3.
Protection shall be provided under intermediate horizontal surfaces such as ducts,
loading platforms, and storage racks in excess of 3,5 m in width and whose under-surface is in excess of
Where the distance from the underside of the intermediate surface to the ceiling is less
than 800 mm, the underside of the intermediate surface may be considered as the ceiling and does not
r6e.7q.u2i.r6e. 3d etectors above the intermediate surface.
If the side of the duct or structure is in excess of 800 mm from the wall or other ducts or
s6t.7ru.2c.t6u.r4e s, detectors shall be provided at the highest accessible point on the ceiling.
Where a concealed space is formed above or below the intermediate surface, such as
ducts above false ceilings, 6.7.3 shall apply.
Detectors may be omitted from the underside of open grid portions of the ceiling which
have not less than two-thirds of the total ceiling area open to the free flow of air and have detectors
i6n.7st.2a.l7le.2d on the ceiling above the open grid.
Where any solid portion of the ceiling has a minimum dimension in excess of 3,5 m,
Where flame detectors are used, they shall be installed above and below the open
The space above the open grid ceiling shall be protected, if required by this part of ISO 7240.
6.7.2.8 Restricted fire service access
Where detectors are installed in areas to which fire service access is restricted, each area shall be a
separate detection zone or have a suitably labelled remote indicator installed outside the entry to the
NOTE Examples of restricted access might include the following locked areas: shops (in arcades, malls, and
plazas), vaults, strong rooms, lift motor rooms, lift shafts, cool rooms, freezers, cupboards, and electrical switch rooms.
Alarm indication from each sole occupancy unit shall be
a) an individual identification at the FDCIE, or
b) a common detection zone indication at the FDCIE, provided that a remote indicator is provided
6.7.2a.d9j.a2c ent to the entry to the sole occupancy unit.
Where a sole occupancy unit incorporating a sleeping area consists of one main room and
water closet/shower/bathroom (which is not used for other purposes, e.g. laundry), one smoke detector
or one multisensor detector located in the main room may be installed, provided that the total area of
the whole unit is less than 50 m . The water closet/shower/bathroom and the ceiling space containing a
fan coil unit (where installed) need not be protected.
NOTE It is important that the airflows are considered when choosing the detector location.
Smoke detectors using scattered light or transmitted light shall be installed within the stairwells at
each floor level having access to the stairwell.
Any enclosure with an internal volume greater than 10 m , that is manufactured to be transportable,
used for storage or offices, and located within the building shall be protected as if part of building.
6.7.2.12 Vertical shafts and openings
Vertical risers, lift shafts, and similar openings between storeys that exceed 0,1 m in
area shall be protected within the riser at the top as follows.
a) Where vertical shafts penetrate any storey and are not fire-isolated from other areas, a detector
shall be located on the ceiling of each storey not more than 1,5 m horizontally distant from where
the vertical shaft that penetrates the storey above.
b) Any ceiling that contains openings exceeding 9 m and permitting free travel of fire between storeys
shall have detectors located within 1,5 m of the edge of the opening and spaced not more than 7,2 m
apart around the perimeter of the opening. Such detectors may be regarded as part of the general
protection for the area below the opening. If the opening is less than 0,5 m from a wall, detectors are
6.7.2n.o1t2 r.2eq uired between the wall and the opening.
The requirements of 6.7.2.1.1 e) need not apply.
6.7.2.13 Additional requirements for flame detectors
Flame detectors shall be located so that the detector’s field of view is not blocked by
s6t.7ru.2c.t1u3r.a2l members of buildings or other objects.
Where flame detectors are placed in environments that are likely to lead to the depositing
of particles on the lens, appropriate baffles or purging equipment shall be fitted to ensure that the
detector’s sensitivity range is maintained between service periods.
6.7.3 Locations not requiring detectors
Deteacitro lrosc akrse not required in the following locations:
a) — opening on both sides into protected areas, provided that they are less than 3,5 m
in area, do not contain electrical equipment, are not used for the storage of goods or for access to
ccounpcbeoaalerdd ss,p aancde sare not used as washrooms;
1) less than 800 mm high, do not contain electrical lighting and power equipment, and are not
2) to which there is no access and that are fire-isolated with a minimum fire-resistance level 60 min,
3) to which there is no access and that are less than 350 mm high, irrespective of construction, and
4o)p enl ecsosv ethreadn a3r ema3s, do not contain electrical lighting and power, and are not used for storage;
c) — verandas, balconies, colonnades, open-sided covered walkways, overhanging
rcouopfb aoraeradss ,c aonndta tihnein lgik we aatnedr hneoatt uesrsed for the storage of goods or as a car park;
d) exhaust ducts — if solely for the use of a water heater and not in excess of 3 m 3 ;
e) — in ducts exhausting from toilets, or rooms containing single ironing and laundry
faarceialist iperso;tected with a sprinkler system
g) — any water closet or shower-recess or bathroom, with a floor area of less than
3sk,5y lmigh2 tasnd opening off a protected area;
1) with an opening on the ceiling of less than 1,5 m and not used for ventilation,
2) installed in areas not requiring detection (such as sanitary spaces),
3) that have less than 4,0 m area, have a recess height of not more than 800 mm, and are not used
4sw) itcwhibthoa arnd ospening on the ceiling of less than 0,15 m 2 (regardless whether used for ventilation or not);
i) — any non-recessed or freestanding switchboard or switchboard cubicle protected by
detectors installed in the area within which it is contained.
6.8.1 Smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors
The opening to the sensing element for ceiling-mounted point-type detectors shall be not less than
25 mm and normally not more than 300 mm below the ceiling, roof, or apex. For ceiling heights between
4 m and 15 m, the sensing element shall not be more than 600 mm below the ceiling roof or apex.
NOTE Where the ceiling or roof height is more than 15 m from the floor, the detector type and location
might require additional engineering considerations of the smoke plume within the building environment. It is
recommended that integrating type detectors, for example aspirating detectors (see ISO 7240-20) or line-type
smoke detectors using a transmitted optical beam (see ISO 7240-12), be considered, with a sensitivity setting
appropriate to the height being protected (see 6.8.1.2 and 6.8.1.3).
6.8.1.1.2 Spacing of detectors for level surfaces
For level surfaces, the distance from any point on the level surface to the nearest detector shall not
exceed 7,2 m and the distance between any detector and the nearest detector shall not exceed 10,2 m,
Figure 2 — Maximum detector spacing — Level surfaces
6.8.1.1.3 Spacing of detectors for sloping surfaces
Detectors shall be installed between 0,5 m and 1,5 m from the apex and spaced longitudinally at a
maximum of 10,2 m between detectors. Lower rows of smoke detectors shall be no more than 10,2 m
apart, measured horizontally from adjacent rows, the outside wall, or partition. The spacing between
detectors within lower rows may extend to 20,4 m provided that the detectors are offset equally between
the detectors on the adjacent rows (see Figure 3).
(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:17)
(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:21)
(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:23) (cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:23)
(cid:21)(cid:19)(cid:15)(cid:23)
NOTE 1 Alternate rows are offset.
NOTE 2 Refer to 6.8.1.1.7 and 6.8.1.4.
NOTE 3 See 6.8.1.1.3 and Figure 6 for apex detector requirements.
Figure 3 — Example of point-type and aspirating smoke detector locations for sloping surfaces
6.8.1.1.4 Spacing from walls, partitions, or air supply openings
The distance from the nearest row of detectors to any wall or partition shall not exceed
56,.18 .m1. 1o.r4 b.2e less than 500 mm (see Figure 2).
Detectors shall not be installed closer than 400 mm to any air-supply opening.
Where ceiling fans are installed, detectors shall not be installed closer than 400 mm
outside the circumference of the blades of the fan.
6.8.1.1.5 Areas of high airflows
For areas of high airflow with mechanical ventilation, such as computer rooms and clean rooms, reduced
spacing of detectors shall be in accordance with Table 1.
Table 1 — Smoke detector spacing based on air-change rate
Air changes per hour Distance between detectors Distance from walls or partitions
6.8.1.1.6 Location of smoke detectors on level surfaces with deep beams
Where level surfaces are compartmented by structural features that could have the effect of restricting the
free flow of smoke, the detectors shaldl b ≤e located so that early detection is ensured, subject to the following.
a) For areas with the beam depth 300 mm (see Area 1, Figure 4), the spacing of detectors shall be
in accordance with 6.8.1.1.2 and 6h .<8.1.1.4. d >
b) For areas with the ceiling height 2 m and the beam depth 300 mm (see Area 2, Figure 4), the
spacing of detectors shall be in accord≤a nhc <e with 6.8.1.1.2 and 6.8d.1 ≥.1.4.
c) For areas with the ceiling height 2 m 4 m, the beam depth 300 mm (see Area 3, Figure 4),
and the interbeam area < 4 m , detectors shall be mounted on the underside of the beams and
spaced in accordance with 6.8.1.1.2 and 6.8.1.1.4.
d) For areas such as 6.8.1.1.6 c), where the interbeam area ≥ 4 m , at least one detector shall be placed
in each interbeam area and the shp a≥cing shall be in accordanced w ≥ith 6.8.1.1.2 and 6.8.1.1.4.
e) For areas with the ceiling height 4 m, the deep beam depth 300 mm (see Area 4, Figure 4), and
the interbeam area < 9 m , detectors shall be mounted on the underside of the beams and spaced in
f) For areas with the ceiling height ≥ 4 m, the deep beam depth 300 mm (see Area 4, Figure 4), and
the interbeam area ≥ 9 m , detectors shall be placed in the interbeam areas and the spacing shall be
in accordance with 6.8.1.1.2 and 6.8.1.1.4.
Figure 4 — Design criteria for point-type smoke detectors and aspirating smoke detector
systems in structures with deep beams
6.8.1.1.7 Spacing in concealed spaces requiring smoke detectors
Where detectors are required in accordance with 6.7.2.4, spacing and location shall be in accordance
with 6.8.1.1.2 to 6.8.1.1.6, subject to the following.
a) With level upper surfaces in excess of 2 m high, detectors shall be spaced in accordance with 6.8.1.1.2
b) With level upper surfaces not exceeding 2 m high and having downward projections, such as beams
and ducts, not exceeding 300 mm from the upper surface of the space, spacing between detectors
shall not exceed 15 m and the distance between any wall or partition to the nearest detector shall
not exceed 10,2 m. Where downward projections exceed 300 mm, spacing of detectors shall be in
c) With apexes, the lowest row of detectors shall be located not more than 10,2 m measured horizontally
towards the apex from a position where the vertical height, between the upper and lower surfaces
of the space, is 800 mm (see Figure 3).
A single aspirating smoke detector (see ISO 7240-20) shall not cover an area greater than
a single detection zone (see 6.5).
The location of sampling holes shall be in accordance with the spacing requirements for
6.8.1.2.4 For normal applications, a class C aspirating smoke detector shall be used.
For high ceiling applications (>15 m), where smoke dilution is a design consideration, a
c6l.a8s.s1 .B2 .a5s pirating smoke detector shall be used.
For areas with high airflow (>4 m/s), a class A aspirating smoke detector shall be used
f6o.r8 s.1a.m2.p6l ing at the air return vents.
The design of the aspirating smoke detector pipe-work and sampling hole sizes shall be
in accordance with the data supplied by the manufacturer.
6.8.1.3 Line-type smoke detectors using a transmitted optical beam
For ceiling heights up to 40 m, line-type smoke detectors using a transmitted optical
beam (refer to ISO 7240-12) shall be mounted not less than 25 mm and not more than 600 mm below the
NOTE For ceiling heights above 25 m, the sensitivity of the detectors should be set to compensate for expected
i6n.c8r.e1a.s3e.d2 smoke dilution caused by the likely spread of a smoke plume as a function of height from the fire source.
The distance between beams shall not exceed 14,4 m (see Figure 5). The maximum
distance from any wall to the nearest beam shall not exceed 7,2 m.
N6.O8T.1E. 3.3 Some beam receiver units might be unsuitable for exposure to strong light, especially direct sunlight.
Where detectors cannot be installed in accordance with 6.8.1.3.2 (e.g. due to the
construction of the structure or absence of suitable mounting points), detectors may be installed more
than 600 mm below the ceiling or roof provided that the spacing between beams is reduced to a quarter
of the mounting height of the beam above the floor.
NOTE It is generally the case that hot plumes have a spreading angle of 12° - 30°. The requirement for reduced
s6p.8ac.1in.3g .o4f detectors takes into account the likely spread of a smoke plume as a function of height.
Where there is a risk that smoke may not rise to the ceiling or roof, additional detection
may be provided at intermediate heights. The distance between detectors mounted at intermediate
heights shall be a quarter of the mounting height above the floor.
NOTE 1 Additional line-type smoke detectors are often installed in vertical spaces at lower levels, e.g. atria.
NOTE 2 Designers might also consider mounting detectors such that the beams traverse the space at an angle
Figure 5 — Example of line-type smoke detector locations
6.8.1.4 Location of detectors near ceiling or surface apexes
Detectors shall be installed near the apex of a sloping ceiling, roof, or a surface to avoid dead air pockets
(a) Unequal sloping surface (b) Sawtooth ceiling, roof, or surface
(d) Louvred ceilin0g,5 or roof with louvred riser (e) Ceiling, roof, or surface with skylight
(f) Ventilated ridge (g) Narrow apex
(h) Narrow ridge vent (i) Broad ridge vent
X 10,2 m for point-type smoke detectors and aspirating smoke detectors, and 14,4 m for line-type smoke
detectors using a transmitted optical beam
NOTE 1 For part (c), alternative location is shown using a symbol with dashed outline.
NOTE 2 Infrared scan of a building has shown heat pockets at apexes of roof structures due to solar radiation;
therefore, detectors located in these pockets might not detect a fire early enough to meet the design requirements.
Figure 6 — Examples of point-type, line-type, and aspirating smoke detector locations at
ceiling, roof, or surface apexes
Detectors shall be installed so that no part of the sensing element is less than 15 mm or more than
100 mm below the ceiling or roof. Where roof purloins inhibit the free flow of heat to the detector, the
detector may be installed on the purloin provided that the sensing element is not further than 350 mm
NOTE 1 Where the height of the ceiling is greater than 6 m, it is recommended that a detector with higher
NOTE 2 Infrared scans of a building have shown heat pockets at apexes of roof structures due to solar
radiation. Therefore, detectors located in these pockets might not detect a fire early enough to meet the design
6.8.2.1.2 Spacing of heat detectors for level surfaces
For level surfaces, excluding corridors [see 6.7.2.1.1 b)], the distance from any point on the level surface
to the nearest detector shall not exceed 5,1 m and the distance between any detector and the nearest
detector shall not exceed 7,2 m (see Figure 7).
Figure 7 — Maximum heat detector spacing — Level surfaces
6.8.2.1.3 Spacing of heat detectors for sloping surfaces
Detectors shall be installed between 0,5 m and 1,5 m from the apex and spaced
longitudinally at a maximum of 7,2 m between detectors. Lower rows of heat detectors shall be no more
than 7,2 m apart, measured horizontally from adjacent rows, the outside wall, or partition. The spacing
between heat detectors within lower rows may extend to 14,4 m provided that the detectors are offset
e6q.8u.a2l.l1y. 3be.2t ween the detectors on the adjacent rows (see Figure 8).
Where the ceiling is constructed with beams or joists or a step less than 300 mm deep,
the detector may be installed on the underside of the beam or joist.
(cid:26)(cid:15)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:80)(cid:68)(cid:91)(cid:17)
(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:15)(cid:23) (cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:15)(cid:23)
NOTE 3 See Figure 9 for apex detector requirements.
Figure 8 — Examples of heat detector locations for sloping surfaces
6.8.2.1.4 Spacing from walls, partitions, or air supply openings
36,.68 .m2. 1or.4 b.2e less than 300 mm (see Figure 7).
Detectors shall not be installed closer than 600 mm to any air supply opening.
Where the ceiling is segmented by beams, joists, or ducts and the vertical depth of such members is
greater than 300 mm, spacing between detectors shall be reduced by 30 % in the direction perpendicular
to the direction of segmentation.
6.8.2.1.6 Spacing in concealed spaces requiring heat detectors
with 6.8.2.1.2 to 6.8.2.1.5, subject to the following.
a) With level upper surfaces in excess of 2 m high, detectors shall be spaced in accordance with 6.8.2.1.2
b) With level upper surfaces less than 2 m high and having downward projections, such as beams and
ducts not exceeding 300 mm from the upper surface of the space, the spacing between detectors
shall not exceed 10,4 m, and the distance between any wall or partition to the nearest detector shall
c) Where downward projections exceed 300 mm, the spacing of detectors shall be in accordance with
d) With apexes, the lowest row of detectors shall be located not more than 7,2 m measured horizontally
of the space, is 800 mm (see Figure 8).
6.8.2.2 Line-type heat detectors
Installations of line-type heat detectors shall comply with the appropriate requirements of 6.8.2.1.2 to
6.8.2.1.5 and with the following requirements.
a) The maximum area covered by each line-type heat detector shall be in accordance with the detection
zone limitation specified in 6.5.2.
b) The line-type heat detector sensing elements shall be installed so that they are not subject to
c) The heat-sensing portion of the line-type heat detector shall not be installed in more than one
detection zone unless adequate precautions are taken to prevent incorrect detection zone
identification and ensure that a single fault does not affect more than one detection zone.
d) The line-type heat detection circuits shall be disposed throughout the area so that there is not more
than 7,2 m between any two adjacent lines and within 3,6 m of any wall or partition.
e) A sensing element shall be installed in the roof bay of each apex, even though these apexes may be
f) Where a line-type heat detector is made up of a number of individual elements, each element shall
be considered as a point-type detector for spacing purposes.
6.8.2.3 Location of heat detectors near ceiling or surface apexes
Detectors shall be installed near the apex of a sloping ceiling, roof, or a surface but shall avoid natural
hot spots and dead air pockets (see Figure 9).
(d) Louvred ceiling or roo0f,5 with louvred riser (e) Ceiling, roof, or surface with skylight
Figure 9 — Examples of point-type and line-type heat detector locations at ceiling, roof, or
Flame detectors (refer to ISO 7240-10) shall be spaced to ensure that the risk areas are protected with
a minimum of shadowing or blind spots. Where significant unprotected areas exist because of the
presence of objects such as aircraft, equipment, or storage racks, additional detectors to cover these
areas shall be installed.
NOTE The operating principles of flame detectors (infrared or ultraviolet) need to be understood to enable
the correct selection and location of a particular device to suit the risk and the level of protection required. The
manufacturer’s installation instructions provide important information for the type of detector selected.
Where multisensor detectors are installed (e.g. ISO 7240-8, ISO 7240-15, and ISO 7240-27) and
only the heat-sensing element is enabled, detectors shall be installed in accordance with the requirements
f6o.r8 h.4e.a2t detectors and comply with the sensitivity requirement of ISO 7240-5.
Where the detector response settings can be varied, these settings shall be set within the limits
specified in the relevant equipment standards.
6.9 Manual alarm condition initiation
A manual call point complying with ISO 7240-11 shall be installed in a clearly visible and readily
a6c.9c.e2s sible location adjacent to each exit from each floor of the building.
Where the manual call point is installed on the outside of the exit door, it may be connected to
the detection zone associated with the floor of the building.
The maximum distance of travel to any manual call point shall not exceed 45 m.
NOTE Where the distance of travel exceeds 45 m and an additional manual call point is required to be
6in.s9t.a4l led, the location requirement of 6.9.1 need not apply.
Manual call points shall be installed at a height of (1,4 ± 0,2) m from the trafficable area, with a
clear space of 0,6 m semi-circle around the front face of the manual call point.
Alarm zones may include more than one detection zone.
6.10.2.2 Audible warning shall be provided to alert all building occupants to a fire alarm condition.
The alarm system shall be one of the following:
a) a sound system for emergency purposes in accordance with ISO 7240-19, initiated by the FDAS; or
b6).1 0a.2u.d3i ble alarm devices complying with ISO 7240-3 (with or without verbal message).
Where an FDAS is connected to a sound system for emergency purposes complying
with ISO 7240-19, a disable facility shall be provided to allow the FDAS to be tested without initiating
o6p.1e0r.a2t.i4o n of the fire alarm system.
Where audible alarm devices complying with ISO 7240-3 are used, the following shall apply.
— The evacuation signal shall operate simultaneously throughout the building.
— The alarm signals shall be audible in all places specified in ISO 7240-19.
— The A-weighted sound pressure level during the “on” phases of the alarm signal, measured with the
time-weighting characteristic F (fast) (see IEC 61672-1), shall comply with the following:
— the requirements of ISO 8201;
— exceed by a minimum of 10 dBA the ambient sound pressure level averaged over a period of
60 s, not be less than 65 dBA, and not more than 105 dBA. These values shall be determined in
NOTE 1 It is suggested that the default evacuation signal complying with ISO 8201 consists of a uniformly
increasing frequency during the 0,5 s “on” phase of the signal. Other signals might be more appropriate for use
where the ambient noise masks the signal.
NOTE 2 It is important to take consistent measurements such as at the normal standing positions on the
— The audible alarm devices shall be connected to a supervised output at the FDCIE.
— A single fault in one detection zone shall not affect the operation of audible alarm devices in other
If the audible alarm signal is intended to arouse sleeping occupants, the minimum
A-weighted sound pressure level of the signal shall be 75 dBA at the bedhead, with all doors closed.
N6.O1T0E.2 .6 75 dBA might not be adequate to awaken all sleeping occupants.
Where occupants, such as patients in hospital wards, must not be subject to possible
stress imposed by loud noises, the sound pressure level and message content shall be arranged to
p2r8o vide warning for the staff and minimize patient trauma.
The alarm system shall include visual alarm devices complying with ISO 7240-23
installed in the following areas of the building:
— where the ambient noise exceeds 95 dBA;
— where hearing protection is normally used by building occupants;
— normally occupied by people with a hearing disability; or
— in buildings in which the initial warning of fire may be restricted to designated occupants (e.g.
6.10h.3o.s1p.2it al operating theatres and certain public assembly buildings).
Visual alarm devices shall be installed on the ceiling or wall, in sufficient numbers such
that the visual signal is visible from normally accessible locations throughout the required area in the
highest expected ambient light condition. When installed on the wall, the minimum height shall be 2,4 m
Where more than two visual alarm devices are simultaneously visible by building
o6c.1c0u.p3a.1nt.4s, they shall flash in synchronization (see ISO 7240-23).
A single fault in one alarm zone shall not affect the operation of visual alarm devices in
The FDAS shall operate one type-B red-coloured visual indicator complying with
ISO 7240-23 to indicate a fire alarm condition. The visual indicator shall be located on the outside of
the building, be visible from the main approach to the building, and be as near as practicable to the
The word “FIRE” shall be marked on or adjacent to the visual indicator in lettering not
less than 25 mm in height on a contrasting background. The lettering shall be upright and clearly legible
w6.h1e0n.3 t.h2e.3 v isual indicator is installed.
The visual indicator shall be connected to a supervised output on the FDCIE.
6.11 Fire detection control and indicating equipment
The FDCIE shall comply with ISO 7240-2.
Indicator panels shall be installed in approved locations complying with the following requirements.
a) FDCIE shall be installed such that indications of required functions are available to the operator.
b) Access to the controls and indicators shall not be obstructed.
c) Operation of the FDAS shall not obstruct the evacuation of the building.
d) FDCIE shall be located in an area that presents a low risk of damage to the equipment and injury to
personnel in an emergency, with minimum clearance in front of the FDCIE (width and depth) of 1 m
Figure 10 — Minimum enclosure clearance
e) Required controls and indicators shall be not less than 750 mm and not more than 1 850 mm
f) Workspace for operational personnel shall be arranged so as to minimize distraction by
g) Ambient light level in the vicinity of the FDCIE shall be such that visual indications can be clearly
seen, controls easily operated, and any instructions or legends easily read.
h) The area shall be free of ignition sources and stored combustible materials.
i) Where FDCIE shares a common cabinet with FACIE complying with ISO 7240-16, controls shall be
located such that they can be used by separate individuals, unless the controls are common to both
equipment, as permitted by ISO 7240-16.
Where indicators are obscured by a door, then the door shall be marked in a contrasting
colour to the general colour scheme with the words “FIRE PANEL” or similar in letters not less than
560.1 m1.m3. 2h igh. The door shall not be lockable.
Where the door reduces the FDCIE sounder sound level below the requirement specified
in ISO 7240-2, means shall be provided to give the required sound level outside the covering door.
Distributed FDCIE serving other than the detection zone(s) in which it is installed shall be installed in
an area that is free from ignition sources and stored combustible materials.
Where parts of FDCIE are installed in separate cabinets and in locations remote to the main indicators
and controls, the following shall apply:
— a single fault in the transmission paths between parts of FDCIE shall not prevent an alarm from
other parts of FDCIE;
NOTE 1 Separate cable paths (e.g. loop wiring configuration) to parts of FDCIE might provide a solution.
— a single failure of a part of FDCIE installed in a location remote to the main indicators and control
shall not inhibit the correct operation of other parts of FDCIE.
NOTE 2 Compliance with this requirement might prevent the connection of parts of FDCIE in a single spur
Power supply equipment for the FDCIE shall comply with the requirements of ISO 7240-4.
The power supply equipment shall be energized by a reliable source of supply and shall be connected in
accordance with national electrical wiring requirements. The main power source shall be either
a) an AC supply from an electricity supply company, or
b) a source of quality and reliability equivalent to that in 6.12.2 a).
In the event of loss of the main power source, the standby power source standby time
shall comply with requirements of local regulations. Where local regulations do not exist, the standby
power source shall power the FDAS for a minimum of 24 h in quiescent condition, followed by a further
period in the alarm condition. The alarm condition period shall be the greater of 30 min or the time
r6e.1q2u.i3re.2d to evacuate the premises.
Annex A provides example calculations for battery capacity, charging current, and power
source. When calculating the capacity of the power supply, any ancillary loads powered by the power
supply equipment shall be included.
Batteries shall be located and installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
Batteries shall be provided with adequate ventilation and protected against corrosion and the dangers
resulting from any gases emitted by the batteries.
6.12.5.2 The battery and cabinet shall be readily accessible for inspection.
Battery cabinets shall be accessible by persons having specific responsibility for safety
a6n.1d2 w.5h.3o are competent and authorized to operate the FDCIE.
For non-sealed batteries, the battery enclosure shall not be mounted above the FDCIE
The connecting leads to the battery shall be clearly labelled to reduce the possibility of
reverse connections to the battery. The battery shall not be tapped for intermediate voltages and all
connections shall be made using suitable connectors.
The alarm output from a fire suppression system shall be indicated as a separate detection zone
Where flow switches or pressure switches, and the like, associated with fire suppression systems
are used to initiate a fire alarm signal at the FDCIE, each shall be indicated as a separate detection zone
on the FDCIE. Wiring to these devices shall be supervised.
NOTE Where the FDCIE does not provide adequate alarm delay facilities, the flow/pressure switches used
might incorporate time delay devices to prevent unwanted alarms due to surges in the water supply.
Where the FDAS is used to initiate automatic fire protection equipment, and manual control is
required, fire protection control equipment complying with ISO 7240-28 shall be installed to interface
the FDCIE to and control and monitor the activation of, the fire protection equipment.
6.14 Smoke and heat control
Where a smoke and heat control system is required in the building, the FDAS shall be connected
and transfer alarm condition signals to initiate operation of the smoke and heat control system [see
NOTE Equipment complying with ISO 7240-28 might be used for the control of smoke and heat control systems.
6.14.2 Smoke and fire door release control
Smoke detectors or CO fire detectors shall be installed on both sides of a fire control or
smoke control door, in line with the centre of the door opening no less than 300 mm and no more than
16,.51 4m.2 h.2o rizontal distance from the opening.
Smoke and fire doors held open by door hold-open devices shall close upon an alarm
f6r.o1m4. 2th.3e detectors installed on either side of the door.
Detectors installed to release fire and smoke control doors in a corridor on a single level
may be connected to a common detection zone, together with other detectors in the same corridor.
N6.O1T4E.2 .4 Equipment complying with ISO 7240-28 might be used for the control of smoke and fire doors.
A manual control shall be provided for door hold-open devices. The manual control shall
be located adjacent to the doors, mounted at a height not exceeding 1,6 m from the floor, and visible and
accessible with the door(s) in the open position. The manual control shall be labelled “DOOR RELEASE”
unless it is integral with the hold-open device. The lettering height shall be a minimum of 5 mm and in a
c6o.1n4tr.2a.s5ti ng colour to the manual control housing.
Where more than one door panel is fitted to one opening, then one switch shall release
NOTE In some situations, a door release delay might be required to ensure the safe operation of the door.
Where required by the regulatory authority, the FDAS shall be connected to a monitoring service
provider using routing equipment complying with ISO 7240-21.
NOTE Remote monitoring might be required by regulatory authorities for buildings for certain uses
(e.g. hospitals, sleeping accommodation, chemical manufacturing), of certain construction (e.g. type of building
materials), or of certain orientation (e.g. size of fire compartments, building footprint, building height, distance to
Routing equipment shall be compatible with fire alarm and fault warning receiving station equipment.
Circuits controlling ancillary devices, such as input/output devices complying with ISO 7240-18, shall be
either electrically isolated, fuse protected, or current-limited to prevent a fault on the transmission path
from ancillary control facilities inhibiting the operation of other FDCIE functions or the transmission of
Outputs from the FDAS may be delayed to provide time to investigate the cause of a fault or
Actions to be taken in the event of a delay to an output shall be included in the emergency
NOTE Designers might consider the following:
— the pattern of evacuation expected in case of fire, and how the pattern will depend on the position of the fire;
— the expected occupancy of the building, and how occupancy may vary with time or day;
— how the occupants will be informed or pre-warned of the fire condition;
— the requirements for indicating the fire location;
— how the building should be divided into detection zones and alarm zones;
— in large or interconnected buildings (such as shopping malls), with a hierarchical system or multiple control
stations, the arrangements needed for transfer of control between control stations;
— how the fire brigade will be called and the information required upon arrival;
— any special facilities needed for the fire brigade;
— the special provisions for reducing the effects of unwanted alarms;
— the changes in the fire alarm response strategy between night and day, or between working and non-
— the provision for emergency power supplies;
— the parts of the FDAS required to remain operational for a significant time after the initial detection of fire
6.18.1 Separation from other systems
6.18.1.2 The wiring of the FDCIE shall be separate from lighting and other power circuits.
The wiring shall be dedicated to the FDAS, except that the wiring may be shared with
systems complying with other parts of the ISO 7240, provided that the wiring complies with the most
onerous requirements of the relevant part of ISO 7240.
6.18.2 Supervision of transmission paths
6.18.2.1 Transmission paths from the FDAS
The transmission paths between the FDAS and other systems (e.g. fire alarm system, fire suppression
system, smoke and heat control systems) shall be supervised for faults in accordance with ISO 7240-2.
6.18.2.2 Transmission paths within the FDAS
The transmission path between the FDCIE shall be supervised for faults in the transmission paths and
— networked equipment forming part of the FDAS installed separately to the FDCIE.
Wiring conductors shall be stranded and insulated. Wiring shall be such that it provides
or is provided with sufficient mechanical strength to maintain the integrity of the transmission path
within the expected environment.
NOTE Two core cables used for extra-low voltage with a minimum cross-sectional area of 0,75 mm for each
conductor might be satisfactory for general installations. Cables having more than two cores used for extra-low
voltage with a cross-sectional area of not less than 0,4 mm for each conductor might also be satisfactory for
The maximum voltage drop shall not cause any equipment to be operated at a voltage
l6e.s1s8 t.h3a.3n the minimum specified by the equipment manufacturer.
Notwithstanding the above requirements, other communication methods such as optical
fibres are permitted provided that the integrity of the installation is equivalent to the requirements of
this part of ISO 7240 and such circuits are dedicated to the fire protection functions of a building.
For extra-low voltage transmission paths not installed within cable conduit, the outer
sheath of a cable shall be coloured red or have permanent red markers of at least 25 mm in width spaced
a6t.1 in8t.4er.2v als of not more than 2 m along the cable length.
The installation of each conductor shall be permanently coloured so that each conductor
i6s. 1re8a.4d.i3ly identifiable at each termination.
Mains wiring for the FDAS shall be connected to a separate isolator (e.g. fuse or circuit
breaker) at the electrical switchboard. The isolator shall be marked “Fire Alarm. Do Not Switch Off.” in
lettering with a minimum height of 5 mm.
Installation wiring shall be installed in conduit or supported on cable trays or catenary
c6a.1b8le.5s,. 2su itably fastened and insulated from the wiring of other systems.
The following wiring systems, including cables, joints, terminations, and fixing
mechanisms, shall be rated to withstand fire for 30 min in accordance with IEC 60331-23 for electrical
transmission paths, IEC 60331-25 for optical fibres, or such higher rating as required by national
requirements, and shall have a mechanical rating protection suitable for the hazard depending on where
a) transmission paths between the FDCIE and power supply equipment, except where the equipment
is in the same room and not separated by more than 2 m;
b) transmission paths between distributed parts of the FDCIE;
c) transmission paths between the FDAS and the fire alarm system, except where the equipment is in
the same room and not separated by more than 2 m;
d) transmission paths that traverse any fire compartment to service another fire compartment;
e) transmission paths that traverse any detection zone to service another detection zone.
Joints and terminations shall be made in a suitably labelled enclosed terminal box
e6m.1p8l.o6y.2in g fixed terminations rated not less than the cable.
Joints and terminations associated with vertical riser cables shall be made within the
associated fire-isolated duct.
6.18.7 Effect of faults on detection zones
The wiring shall be arranged such that a single short circuit or open circuit in a cable within a detection
zone shall not affect the normal operation of any other detection zone.
NOTE This requirement applies to both non-addressable device wiring and addressable device wiring. In
the case where a single cable is used for more than one detection zone (such as with an FDAS using addressable
devices), separate cable paths (e.g. loop wiring configuration) and the use of short-circuit isolators complying
with ISO 7240-17 might be considered.
The design may include the use of radio links (refer to ISO 7240-25) for the connection of devices to the
The designer shall prepare the following documentation:
a) plans of the building that show the location of
— fire alarm system (if installed),
— FDAS cabling routes and termination points,
— other equipment forming part of the FDAS;
b) where the FDAS protects more than one building on a site, a plan of the site identifying designated
entry point(s) for each building and a site entry point;
c) water- and fade-resistant detection zone block plan of the installation, securely mounted adjacent
to the FDCIE and displayed in the correct orientation of the building, showing the following:
— the layout of the building in which the FDAS is installed;
— the area covered by each detection zone;
— the year of original installation and the date of the latest revision to the block plan;
— the location of any other FDCIE, including FACIE;
— the location of any smoke and heat control panels;
— the location of any fire suppression system controls;
— the location of the electrical switchboard;
d) emergency management plan incorporating
— the type of emergencies considered,
— an evacuation plan for the relevant types of emergency,
— actions to be taken in the event that there is a delay to an output from the FDAS,
— contingencies to be taken in the event that it is necessary to change the plan,
— who has responsibility for access to the FDAS, including who can
— switch off parts of the FDAS,
— undertake changes to the FDAS;
e) any assumptions made and justifications for the design solution;
f) contingency measures to take in the event that an evacuation is required during system maintenance;
g) FDAS operating manuals, including equipment documentation, in accordance with ISO 7240-2;
h) list of components and subassemblies;
i) list of component compatibility;
j) list of service items;
l) operational instructions for the operation of the FDAS, including actions to take in accordance with
established and well-rehearsed procedures.
Operational instructions shall be provided in the form best suited to the environment in which they
are used. This may take the form of a bound document, or laminated cards, or both, or some other
means. As far as possible, graphic illustrations should be used. Where text is necessary, it should be
clearly legible and in the preferred language(s).
The number of copies of the operational instructions required varies, but as a guide, there should
be one copy for every control position, one copy for every equipment rack location, one copy for the
6.19p.2u rchaser’s archive, one copy for the installer’s archive, and one copy for the designer’s archive.
A copy of the documentation shall be made available to the building owner or authority
Installation of the FDAS shall be undertaken by a suitable installer. The installation shall comply
with the design plan and shall also include the following: